Rare Earth minerals have you ever heard
of them I'm going to show you why today
one country has a Stranglehold has a
grip on Rare Earth minerals and why that
affects your National Security your
daily life and potentially your future
how does that sound well we're going to
get into that today truth Seekers
welcome I want to invite you here to the
channel that gets the information that
others simply can't so join this
movement of nearly 300 000 people as we
delve into the most difficult of
subjects making them real easy click on
that subscribe and the notification
beside it so that we can conquer this
together now I'm going to talk to you
today about rare Earths big changes have
happened big things why is it that this
one country has such a grip on what's
Happening and it isn't because of what
sits under the ground it's actually on
top let me get into that China finds
Rare Earth deposits along one thousand
kilometer Himalayan belt Chinese
scientists use artificial intelligence
to identify chemical composition of
rocks leading to the Discovery pretty
interesting to say the least what I
think about this is that if we see what
happens with China well I think that's
going to give us insight as to what's
going on around the world they're making
crazy discoveries right here in the
Himalayan belt we know that there's more
of this Rare Earth out there now Rare
Earth
so rare
the trouble here is in the refining
and China refines almost all of the rare
Earths but now we can see that things
are certainly changing now I assume that
there's you know some maybe some
political issues maybe there's something
to do with the pollution all these other
aspects that puts that in China because
of course that's how this has worked all
of the dirty manufacturing takes place
in certain areas and somehow that makes
it okay for the world
um that's how they offshore everything
oh we're going to bankrupt coal but
we'll just let other countries that do
that anyway the you know the emissions
and things in the brics nations are
absolutely off the chart and look at
China look at what they're doing but at
the same time you could see that we're
in such demand for energy such demand
for all these minerals and yet they're
not really coming up with a good
solution to it and that's why China is
really taking advantage of the
circumstances they're saying bring the
business here we're gonna do it we are
the ones that are going to grow we want
to grow will manufacture all that for
you don't worry and we'll manufacture
your Rare Earth minerals and you could
use them for your weapons but I guess
that means when it's time to have War we
could also stop just like that how does
that sound here we have it Bill Gates
and Jeff Bezos are backing this one
billion dollar mining company that used
AI to find rare earth metals and that is
co-bold Metals okay Cobalt
k-o-b-o-l-d Metals all right that's one
of the companies that they mentioned in
this article you could see it
um if you want to check it out I know
some people always ask what's the what
company are you talking about well there
you go billionaires are getting into it
they must know something
cesium Wars why are China and North
America fighting over this rare metal I
thought this was crazy
I I mean check this out the Canadian
mining sector is on a mission to create
the world's most secure supply of
critical minerals without Chinese
involvement you gotta read this the
rarer the mineral is the more critical
to national security access to rare
Metals is essential to gaining
technological superiority which in turn
dictates superpower status we know that
cesium is so critical that his value is
in the realm of the Priceless I mean
what have you ever heard that before
you could see
um they say North America must have
breathed a sign of relief they
discovered a high grade cesium while
exploring for lithium okay there's one
particular company power Metals Corp
the it says right here that cesium is
Central to the United States goal of
winning the 5G race it's a lofty goal
considering that there is no cesium
currently being produced anywhere in the
world at all how do we have something so
critical and yet it's just not being
produced look at all the things that
it's in it's basically everything I'm
going to mention you'll see
um I was reading the article thinking to
myself wait a second could it really be
in all of these different Industries oil
and gas they talk about uh as a
lubricant for high pressure high
temperature well drilling equipment okay
so the oil and gas industry cesium
bromide is used for infrared detectors
Optics photoelectrical cells it goes on
and on critical use is beyond this
cesium Isotopes necessary for
maintaining Atomic resonance frequency
standards in an atomic clock so think
aircraft guidance systems GPS Internet
and cellular telephone Transmissions 5G
technology it goes on and on
so this is something that they don't
even have a good supply of and yet we
rely on it
this is one company they're talking
about Rare Earth producer Linus
l-y-n-a-s they got 20 million dollar
Grant from the Australian government
which is good for this company and of
course potentially for Australia as well
Linus Rare Earth is the world's only
significant producer of separated rare
earth materials outside of China the
company's Mount weld mined in Western
Australia has acknowledged as one of the
world's Premier Rare Earth deposits so
this is good news because we always want
diversification it's not a bad thing and
it's not even a Bad Thing necessarily
for China
Linus also operates the world's largest
single rare Earth's processing plant in
Malaysia where it produces high quality
separated rare earth materials for
exports to manufacturing markets Asia
Europe and the US so like I said it's
good we want diversification we want
that every way all like every way we can
do so bacteria breakthrough could
simplify Rare Earth element processing
the research discovered a new method of
separating Rare Earth elements using
bacterial protein which has a unique
ability to distinguish between different
rare Earths crazy I mean how do they
figure this out I don't know but kudos
to them this is a good thing okay
because just doing this whole process is
expensive difficult and of course uh
they're just nobody really wants to get
into it it seems so if they make it
easier if they can somehow simplify that
process that would be very good because
it brings the cost of stuff down that
means you get stuff cheaper okay Mission
critical to get critical material
minerals and rare earth metals from coal
waste Pennsylvania's mine waste could
play an important role in nation's green
Energy Future so that would be good if
that could actually happen consumer
goods National Defense emerging green
technologies looking at that being able
to access it for for cheaper and of
course close to home would always be
beneficial to everybody a once shuttered
California mind is trying to transform
the rare earth industry a us-based rare
earth supply chain could boost clean
energy of vehicle electric vehicles and
military weapons
you've just seen that more and more of
this okay The Not So shining path to
Rare Earth permanent magnet independence
from China they were just talking about
this I highlighted it
okay this is Raytheon the president of
Raytheon in 2023 they just said this and
I had read this separately and I wanted
to make sure that I included this here
so he said it is possible to de-risk
from relying on China he cited rare
Earths as a paradigm example of the
problem he said that since 95 of rare
Earths are processed in China there is
no way to replace Chinese rare
earth-enabled components that's it end
of story and this is coming from the
president of Raytheon said yeah yeah we
can de-risk we can diversify we can you
know do business with other countries
all that
but we cannot simply just say okay no
more China
like you can't
and it's not as if you know you hearing
the news oh yeah Apple's doing business
with India with Vietnam people think
like a couple years down the road they
don't need China anymore absolutely not
they're still growing in China they're
still making that happen but they're
shifting some production expansion
over to these other countries that's
just smart business that's just good
business it's not necessarily bad for
China it just could have been better
okay and so when I look at that I think
to myself
clearly these countries see what
happened in you know with the lockdowns
three years of lockdowns the the
potential for geopolitical problems
China Taiwan there are you know these
two sides that are forming where what
side do we want to be on or do we want
to kind of a balanced approach some
countries are doing that
Rare Earth metal Market is going to grow
growing demand for electronic appliances
personal equipment to drive the growth
so we could definitely see that there's
more demand coming and that's why we
need this as well
Sarah Verde starts commissioning
Brazilian Rare Earth mine I wanted to
show you that this is happening as well
and just basically all these different
countries
WVU researchers earn eight million
dollars for Rare Earth extraction
facility an economic and environmental
Game Changer so just another example of
that
um West Virginia University in this
example North Dakota hopes to cash in on
Rare Earth elements I'm just trying to
show you what's going on all over the
place Australia announces a 500 million
dollar more in Project funding they want
to do you know just more mining more
minerals more resources good for their
economy and of course the more that
comes online the lower the prices ionic
starts producing Rare Earth oxides at
Belfast recycling plant more and more
and more okay Sweden finds Europe's
biggest deposits of rare earth metals
energy and this is where where I'm
shifting here for a second energy
regulator claims Canadian oil production
will plunge 76 percent by 2050. so we
have all these things rare herbs and
stuff that will be apparently be used in
you know the green technologies but what
they're also saying is that oil and gas
and coal and all these things we're
going to be shifting away from that you
know as the years go on so you got to
realize this if your country is reliant
on that
and they're telling everybody we're
going towards these you know World
economic forum and uh agenda 2030 plans
and we're making sure that we go and hit
these sustainable goals then regardless
of whether you like it or not you're
going to be on the receiving end of it
and so that means you've got to pay much
more
even if we don't have it and maybe that
means shortages maybe that means
brownouts maybe it means blackouts maybe
you don't get the things that you want
that's the world we're living in here
hopefully they can resist some of it
certainly hope so Norway moves to open
its Waters to deep sea mining you can
see that there's
like every Avenue possible to get these
mineral I mean you saw that probably
they want to mine the asteroids I don't
know how that's ever going to happen but
perhaps they want to like mine the
asteroid the asteroid has so much gold
it's got silver it's got all these
minerals let's let's mine it let's bring
that stuff back down it's filled with
you know all these things that will help
us and uh
that's all they say anyway
uh this is just talking about
basically the problems that you could
have with these resources okay this is
where we finish off the video and I
think it's important in this case here
Chile has a problem when Chile has a
problem copper has a problem
Central Chile is being hit with heavy
rains and road closures so of course the
mines that are in this area can't bring
the products to the market as a result
prices can be elevated and you probably
think of yourself interesting now what
can I do with that information well
that's this is exactly why I created
this video I explained that in detail so
you look at a country like Chile or
maybe it's China or what have you and
you think to yourself well where could I
invest according to the information that
I get in the news rare Earths okay we're
heavily reliant on China is that
changing maybe that gives us an
opportunity whether there's a natural
disaster in Chile or some other country
how does that impact the price of our
you know different resources and
different elements and so on this video
right here has all the details you need
to know click it and I'll see you there